README.md, before:

# CodA-Nova 🚀 – UI Components Collection
### *(Explore, create & grow — starting with responsive navigation bars)*

## Badges
![HTML5](https://img.shields.io/badge/HTML5-orange?logo=html5&logoColor=white)  
_Indique la maîtrise de HTML5 pour structurer le contenu web._  

![CSS3](https://img.shields.io/badge/CSS3-blue?logo=css3&logoColor=white)  
_Montre la compétence en CSS3 pour le style et la mise en page responsive._  

![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/JavaScript-yellow?logo=javascript&logoColor=black)  
_Permet de signaler la capacité à créer des interactions dynamiques et fonctionnalités avancées._  

![Responsive](https://img.shields.io/badge/Responsive-Mobile--First-success)  
_Démontre que le projet est mobile-first et adapté à tous les écrans._  

![Figma](https://img.shields.io/badge/Figma-Design-F24E1E?logo=figma&logoColor=white)  
_Indique que le design UI/UX a été pensé et prototypé avec Figma._  

![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-Source-black?logo=github&logoColor=white)  
_Montre que le projet est versionné et géré sur GitHub._  

![Cross-Browser](https://img.shields.io/badge/Cross--Browser-Supported-blue)  
_Assure que le projet fonctionne correctement sur tous les navigateurs modernes._  

![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Personal_Project-blue) 
_Transparence sur l’état actuel du projet._  

![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green)  
_Indique que le projet est open-source et bien structuré._

---

## 📌 Overview

**CodA-Nova** is an evolving frontend UI project that starts with **simple, responsive navigation bars** and gradually grows into a **collection of reusable UI components**,where **new features, layouts, and technologies will be added progressively over time**.

Built **step by step**, following **modern frontend standards, clean architecture, and clear documentation**.  
It combines **learning-by-doing** with **production-ready foundations**.

> 🚀 **Current focus:** Navigation menus (Navbars)  
> 🧩 **Future goal:** A complete UI components library

---

## 📑 Table of Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Badges](#badges)
- [Features](#features)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Components](#components)
   - [Navbars](#navbars)
- [License](#license)

---

## ✨ Current Focus – Phase 1

This phase focuses on building the **structural foundations** of any website, starting with simple and reusable UI components.

---

### Phase 1 – Core Layout Foundations
📌 Current
These components form the **structural base** of a website and are the starting point of CodA-Nova.

**Navbars**
Responsive navigation menus with multiple layouts and behaviors.

Each component in CodA-Nova follows the same principles:
> **Clarity · Reusability · Responsiveness · Documentation**

This roadmap allows CodA-Nova to grow naturally from simple UI foundations into a complete reusable UI components library.

---

## ✨ Current Features
- Mobile-first design for optimal display on all devices.  
- Fully responsive layouts for mobile, tablet, and desktop.  
- Clean, semantic HTML5 for accessible structure.  
- Modern CSS3 using Flexbox for flexible layouts.  
- Early templates require no JavaScript.  
- Easy to customize and reuse across projects.  
- Cross-browser compatible.  
- Well-structured and commented code.  
- Fully documented in **Markdown**.  
- Printable manuals available (**PDF**).

---

CodA-Nova introduces technologies **progressively**, starting with core frontend standards and gradually adding interactivity and backend-ready features.

## 🛠️ Technologies (Used & Planned)

### ✅ Currently Used
- HTML5  
- CSS3  
- Flexbox  
- Media Queries  
- Mobile-first approach  
- Git & GitHub
- Figma (UI/UX)

### 🔄 Planned / Progressive Introduction
- JavaScript (interactivity, toggles, dropdowns)  
- Bootstrap5 (optional UI utilities & layout support)  
- PHP8 & PDO (backend-aware components)  

> Technologies are introduced progressively, aligned with the learning curve.

---

## 🛣️ Roadmap

CodA-Nova evolves step by step, from simple navigation bars to a full library of reusable UI components. Each phase builds upon the previous one.

### Phase 1 – Foundations ✅
- Simple responsive navbar (HTML & CSS)  
- Mobile, tablet, desktop layouts  
- Hover effects (desktop)  
- Documentation (README, manuals, specs)  

### Phase 2 – Interactivity 🔄
- Mobile menu toggle (JavaScript)  
- Improved accessibility  
- Keyboard navigation  

### Phase 3 – Advanced Navigation ⏳
- Dropdown menus  
- Mega menus  
- Animated transitions  

---
## 📁 Project Structure

The project is organized in a clear and modular structure to separate **HTML, assets, prototypes, and documentation**. This helps maintain clarity and makes it easy to extend or modify components.

```
CodA-Nova/
│
├── index.html                 # Main entry point of the project
├── README.md                  # Project documentation and instructions
│
├── assets/                    # Static files (CSS, images, prototypes)
│   ├── css/
│   │   └── style.css          # Main stylesheet
│   └── prototypes/
│       ├── Mobile.png         # Mobile layout prototype
│       └── Navbar_Desktop.png # Desktop navbar prototype
│
└── documentation/             # Detailed documentation and manuals
    ├── Project_Specifications.md
    ├── README.md
    ├── User_Manual.md
    ├── Developer_Manual.md
```


## 🌐 Browser Compatibility
- Google Chrome
- Mozilla Firefox
- Microsoft Edge

### **Usage / Demo**
- Live demo available: [View the project](#)  


## 🚀 Installation & Usage
1. Clone or download the repository
2. Open 'index.html' in a web browser
3. Customize links directly in the HTML file

### Step 4: Link the CSS file in your HTML
```html
<!-- Link to CSS file -->
<link rel="stylesheet" href="assets/css/style.css">
```
4. Customize the menu links as needed.
5. Adjust responsive behavior using media queries.
6. Open in a browser to see the responsive navbar in action.
7. Resize the browser or open on a mobile device to test responsive behavior.

## 👤 Credits  
- Fonts: System fonts (Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif)
- Design & Prototypes: Figma
- Project Series: CodA-Nova UI

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.


## Contact
- Email : alexisabna@gmail.com
- LinkedIn : [linkedin.com/in/AbnaAlexis](https://www.linkedin.com/in/abna-alexis)
- GitHub : [github.com/AbnaAlexis](https://github.com/alexisabna-Developer)

Commit message:

Translate badge descriptions to English and remove TOC
Updated French descriptions to English for badges and removed the table of contents section.

README.md, after:

# CodA-Nova 🚀 – UI Components Collection
### *(Explore, create & grow — starting with responsive navigation bars)*

## Badges
![HTML5](https://img.shields.io/badge/HTML5-orange?logo=html5&logoColor=white)  
_Shows proficiency in HTML5 for structuring web content._  

![CSS3](https://img.shields.io/badge/CSS3-blue?logo=css3&logoColor=white)  
_Indicates skill in CSS3 for styling and responsive layouts._  

![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/JavaScript-yellow?logo=javascript&logoColor=black)  
_Demonstrates the ability to create dynamic interactions and advanced functionality._  

![Responsive](https://img.shields.io/badge/Responsive-Mobile--First-success)  
_Proves the project is mobile-first and adapts to all screen sizes._  

![Figma](https://img.shields.io/badge/Figma-Design-F24E1E?logo=figma&logoColor=white)  
_Shows that UI/UX design was planned and prototyped using Figma._  

![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-Source-black?logo=github&logoColor=white)  
_Indicates the project is version-controlled and managed on GitHub._  

![Cross-Browser](https://img.shields.io/badge/Cross--Browser-Supported-blue)  
_Ensures the project works correctly on all modern browsers._  

![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Personal_Project-blue)  
_Transparency about the current state of the project._  

![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green)  
_Indicates the project is open-source and well-structured._


---

## 📌 Overview

**CodA-Nova** is an evolving frontend UI project that starts with **simple, responsive navigation bars** and gradually grows into a **collection of reusable UI components**,where **new features, layouts, and technologies will be added progressively over time**.

Built **step by step**, following **modern frontend standards, clean architecture, and clear documentation**.  
It combines **learning-by-doing** with **production-ready foundations**.

> 🚀 **Current focus:** Navigation menus (Navbars)  
> 🧩 **Future goal:** A complete UI components library

---

## ✨ Current Focus – Phase 1

This phase focuses on building the **structural foundations** of any website, starting with simple and reusable UI components.

---

### Phase 1 – Core Layout Foundations
📌 Current
These components form the **structural base** of a website and are the starting point of CodA-Nova.

**Navbars**
Responsive navigation menus with multiple layouts and behaviors.

Each component in CodA-Nova follows the same principles:
> **Clarity · Reusability · Responsiveness · Documentation**

This roadmap allows CodA-Nova to grow naturally from simple UI foundations into a complete reusable UI components library.

---

## ✨ Current Features
- Mobile-first design for optimal display on all devices.  
- Fully responsive layouts for mobile, tablet, and desktop.  
- Clean, semantic HTML5 for accessible structure.  
- Modern CSS3 using Flexbox for flexible layouts.  
- Early templates require no JavaScript.  
- Easy to customize and reuse across projects.  
- Cross-browser compatible.  
- Well-structured and commented code.  
- Fully documented in **Markdown**.  
- Printable manuals available (**PDF**).

---

CodA-Nova introduces technologies **progressively**, starting with core frontend standards and gradually adding interactivity and backend-ready features.

## 🛠️ Technologies (Used & Planned)

### ✅ Currently Used
- HTML5  
- CSS3  
- Flexbox  
- Media Queries  
- Mobile-first approach  
- Git & GitHub
- Figma (UI/UX)

### 🔄 Planned / Progressive Introduction
- JavaScript (interactivity, toggles, dropdowns)  
- Bootstrap5 (optional UI utilities & layout support)  
- PHP8 & PDO (backend-aware components)  

> Technologies are introduced progressively, aligned with the learning curve.

---

## 🛣️ Roadmap

CodA-Nova evolves step by step, from simple navigation bars to a full library of reusable UI components. Each phase builds upon the previous one.

### Phase 1 – Foundations ✅
- Simple responsive navbar (HTML & CSS)  
- Mobile, tablet, desktop layouts  
- Hover effects (desktop)  
- Documentation (README, manuals, specs)  

### Phase 2 – Interactivity 🔄
- Mobile menu toggle (JavaScript)  
- Improved accessibility  
- Keyboard navigation  

### Phase 3 – Advanced Navigation ⏳
- Dropdown menus  
- Mega menus  
- Animated transitions  

---
## 📁 Project Structure

The project is organized in a clear and modular structure to separate **HTML, assets, prototypes, and documentation**. This helps maintain clarity and makes it easy to extend or modify components.

```
CodA-Nova/
│
├── index.html                 # Main entry point of the project
├── README.md                  # Project documentation and instructions
│
├── assets/                    # Static files (CSS, images, prototypes)
│   ├── css/
│   │   └── style.css          # Main stylesheet
│   └── prototypes/
│       ├── Mobile.png         # Mobile layout prototype
│       └── Navbar_Desktop.png # Desktop navbar prototype
│
└── documentation/             # Detailed documentation and manuals
    ├── Project_Specifications.md
    ├── README.md
    ├── User_Manual.md
    ├── Developer_Manual.md
```


## 🌐 Browser Compatibility
- Google Chrome
- Mozilla Firefox
- Microsoft Edge

### **Usage / Demo**
- Live demo available: [View the project](#)  


## 🚀 Installation & Usage
1. Clone or download the repository
2. Open 'index.html' in a web browser
3. Customize links directly in the HTML file

### Step 4: Link the CSS file in your HTML
```html
<!-- Link to CSS file -->
<link rel="stylesheet" href="assets/css/style.css">
```
4. Customize the menu links as needed.
5. Adjust responsive behavior using media queries.
6. Open in a browser to see the responsive navbar in action.
7. Resize the browser or open on a mobile device to test responsive behavior.

## 👤 Credits  
- Fonts: System fonts (Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif)
- Design & Prototypes: Figma
- Project Series: CodA-Nova UI

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.


## Contact
- Email : alexisabna@gmail.com
- LinkedIn : [linkedin.com/in/AbnaAlexis](https://www.linkedin.com/in/abna-alexis)
- GitHub : [github.com/AbnaAlexis](https://github.com/alexisabna-Developer)
